( rain pattering )
( thunder rumbling )
( door chimes )
May I help you?
I'm sorry to bother you.
I just, um... been...
You're hurt.
Yeah, I must have
scraped myself
on a branch.
Ah, that's what happens
when you go tromping
around the bayou
in the middle of the night.
Come on, warm yourself up
by the fire.
Now, I have a first aid kit
around here somewhere.
Where is it?
So, what are you
doing out here anyway?
I'm a writer.
At least I want to be.
And the truth is...
I was looking for you.
Oh?
You are Jake Sisko, the writer?
Yes.
I can't believe
I'm really here...
talking to you.
You are my favorite author
of all time.
You should read more.
I mean it.
Your books, they're so...
insightful.
I'm glad you like them.
There.
Good as new.
Thank you.
I didn't realize people
still read my books.
Of course they do.
A friend recommended
Anslem to me,
and I read it straight through
twice in one night.
Twice in one night?
It made me want to read
everything you'd ever written,
but when I looked,
all I could find
was your Collected Stories.
I couldn't believe it.
I'd finally found someone
whose writing I really admired,
and he'd only published
two books.
Not much to show
for a life's
work, is it?
I'm going to go
get us some tea.
I savored those stories.
I read them slowly,
one each day,
and when I was done,
I wished I hadn't
read them at all.
So I could read them again
like it was the first time.
There's only
one first time
for everything, isn't there?
And only one last time, too.
You think about such things
when you get to be my age.
That today may
be the last time
you sit in your
favorite chair
or watch the rain fall
or enjoy
a cup of tea
by a warm fire.
Can I ask you something?
Of course.
Why did you stop writing?
I lost my favorite pen,
and I couldn't get
any work done without it.
You're joking.
You weren't even 40
when you stopped writing.
I never understood
why you gave it up.
It's a long story.
I have time.
Tell me.
Please.
If you had shown up yesterday
or the day before or a week ago,
I would have said no
and sent you on your way,
but here you are,
today of all days,
and somehow
it seems like
the right time for me
to finally tell this story.
It begins many years ago.
I was 18,
and the worst thing
that could happen to a young man
happened to me.
My father died.
We were very close,
my father and I,
partly because
we'd lost my mother
several years earlier.
I know.
I read a biography
about you.
It said that you
stopped writing
so you could conduct
scientific research.
Ah, it's not quite
that simple.
You see, just before
my father died,
I was working
on a short story.
I don't remember
what it was about,
but I do know that I was
taking it very seriously.
I worked on it night
and day for weeks,
and I wasn't making
any headway.
It was making me miserable.
I suppose my father saw
that I needed a break,
because he insisted
I come with him
to the Gamma Quadrant
to watch the wormhole
undergo
what they call
"a subspace inversion."
Jake-o, let's go.
Of course,
what he didn't realize
was that I could hide away
on the Defiant
just as easily
as I could on the station.
( door chimes )
Yeah?
Jake, this only happens
once every 50 years.
You will never forgive
yourself if you miss it.
Yeah, I'll be right there.
Well, that's what you said
ten minutes ago.
I just want to get this
last paragraph right.
I thought you were going
to put that aside for a while.
I tried, but it's all
I can think about.
Well... I'm no writer,
but if I were,
it seems to me I'd want
to poke my head up
every once in a while
and take a look around,
see what's going on.
It's life, Jake.
You can miss it if you
don't open your eyes.
Now... what do you say
you come up to
the Bridge with me
and we'll watch the
wormhole do its thing.
And then I'll read
what you've got,
and we'll talk about it.
Deal?
Deal.
( alarm blaring )
Sisko to Bridge.
What happened?
The wormhole's gravimetric field
is surging.
SISKO:
Pull us to a safe distance.
I'm on it, Benjamin,
but we've got another problem.
The power output
from the warp core
just jumped off the scale.
Sisko to Engineering.
Engineering, report.
Dax, I'm going to see
what's going on down there.
Stay here, Jake.
OLD JAKE: Most of the time,
I knew enough
to do what my father told me,
but that day, for some reason,
I didn't.
Sisko to Sick Bay.
I need a medical team
down here right away.
Dax to Sisko.
The warp coils are locked
into a feedback loop.
You've got to realign them
or the core is going to blow.
I'm on it!
Jake, I need
an interphasic compensator.
COMPUTER:
Warning. Warp core breach
in 40 seconds.
Dax, better stand by
to eject the core.
DAX:
We can't.
The ejection system's off line.
Jake, where's that compensator?
It's not here!
COMPUTER:
Warning. Warp core breach
in 30 seconds.
Got it.
I'm going to try shunting
the excess power out through
the deflector array.
COMPUTER:
Warning. Warp core breach
in 20 seconds.
Just a little more.
There.
( yells )
No!
He was gone.
I'm not sure I could
ever get over
losing somebody like that
right in front of my eyes.
People do.
Time passes,
and they realize that
the person they lost
is really gone...
and they heal.
Is that what happened
to you?
No.
I suppose not.
There was a memorial service
aboard the station.
People came forward
and talked about my father--
what they remembered
most about him
and why they would miss him.
Benjamin Sisko
was more than
my commanding officer.
He was the Emissary
to my people
sent by the Prophets,
but most importantly,
he was my friend.
OLD JAKE:
I didn't step forward.
I couldn't.
I felt that no matter
what I said about him,
I'd be leaving
so much more out,
and that didn't seem right.
I'd never felt more alone
in all my life.
Everyone went out of their way
to look after me,
especially Dax.
She was my father's
closest friend,
and I guess she felt
responsible for me.
After a few months, things
started returning to normal...
for everyone else, that is.
Jake, I'm almost done.
We have Holosuite 3
for half an hour.
Great.
Nog, get down
to the storeroom
and bring up five kegs
of Takarian mead.
Yes, Uncle.
Sorry, looks like
we're going to lose
our holosuite reservation.
Uh, you know, Nog, things seem
to be slowing down a bit.
I'll get someone else
to bring up those kegs.
You and Jake
go and have some fun.
Are you sure?
Go now, before
I change my mind.
Next time
we go ion surfing,
remind me to keep clear
of those whip curls.
I don't know if I really
want to try it again.
You know, Jake,
I'm going to be gone soon.
We probably won't
see each other for a while.
I know.
So, what are your plans?
Well, I was thinking
of taking that
deferred admission
and going to Pennington
in the fall.
Ah, that would be great!
We'd both be
on Earth together.
But maybe I'll just
stick around here.
I don't know.
I haven't decided yet.
It's late.
I think I'll turn in.
Okay.
( electric crackling )
( whooshing )
Jake.
Dad?
What happened?
( whooshing )
I told Dax
about what had happened--
how it felt so real,
not like a dream at all.
And she very kindly
obliged me and did
a very thorough scan of my room.
I felt vaguely ridiculous,
like a child insisting
his parents check under
the bed for monsters.
She tried to tell me it was
probably just a nightmare,
and I did my best
to put the entire
episode out of my mind.
I puttered around the station
for the next eight
or nine months.
Nog was off at Starfleet.
My stories stubbornly refused
to write themselves.
I filled my time playing dom-jot
and tried not to think
about how alone I really felt.
Dax and the others
were worried about me,
but before long, they had
bigger things to worry about.
Tensions with the Klingons
were continuing to rise.
My father was
a kind of religious figure
to the Bajoran people,
and when he died,
they took it as a sign
from the Prophets
that the Federation
wouldn't be able
to protect them
from the Klingons.
Eventually, Bajor entered
into a mutual defense pact
with the Cardassians,
and the Klingons
didn't like that at all.
The station's
civilian population
was leaving en masse.
They knew that if war broke out
against the Klingons,
Deep Space 9 was going
to be on the front line.
KIRA:
Jake.
Where are you going?
I, uh, I thought I'd watch
the ships leave
from one of the Upper Pylons.
You should be on
one of those ships.
( sighs )
I don't have to go, do I?
No.
It's a voluntary
resettlement,
not an evacuation.
But it would be prudent
that you leave at this time.
OLD JAKE:
I suppose I wasn't feeling
very prudent that day,
because I ignored their advice.
KIRA:
Jake...
I wanted to talk
to you about something.
I spoke
with your grandfather,
and he told me that he
asked you to go live with him.
( sighing )
Even if this sector
weren't on the brink of war,
I would like to see you
leave this station.
I'm not going anywhere.
Oh, Jake...
I could order you to go
if I wanted to.
Please don't
make me leave.
Not yet.
This is my home.
When my dad
and I came here,
this place was just
an abandoned shell.
He turned it
into something.
Everywhere I look, it's
like I see a part of him.
If I leave...
I won't have
anything left of him.
Oh...
all right.
You stay a while longer
if you want to,
but you have to promise me,
when the time comes
and I tell you to go,
you'll do it.
( whooshing )
Dad?
It wasn't
until I actually touched him
that I knew
this wasn't a dream.
But something was wrong.
I didn't understand
everything they were saying,
but Dax and the others seemed
to think that the accident
had somehow knocked
my father's temporal signature
out of phase.
Benjamin, what's the last
thing you remember?
I was in Engineering,
on the Defiant.
It feels like a few minutes ago.
Dad, it's been over a year
since the accident.
A year?
How could that be?
O'BRIEN: We think
the warp core discharge
pulled you into subspace.
If we're right,
that would explain
why you didn't experience
the passage of time.
According to
these readings,
unless we can realign
your temporal signature,
you'll be pulled
back into subspace again
within the next few minutes.
Maybe we can set up some
sort of containment field.
Jake, they'll have me
fixed up in no time.
How are you doing?
It's all right.
Everything's going
to be all right.
I thought it was a dream.
What was?
When I, uh, when I saw you
in my quarters,
I, uh... I should have
felt you were alive.
I should have known it.
It's not your fault, Jake.
I'm here now.
That's what matters.
DAX:
We're losing him.
Look at me.
I need to know
you're going to be all right.
O'BRIEN: His temporal
signature is fluctuating.
I need that containment
field now, Chief.
O'BRIEN:
Right away.
Field active.
It's not working.
Jake...
Dad!
O'BRIEN:
Going to try
locking on to him
with the transporter beam.
Don't leave me!
( whispers ):
Don't leave me.
I didn't think
anything could be worse
than losing him that first time
on the Defiant,
until I was standing there,
staring down
at his empty bed,
knowing he was alive,
yet trapped somewhere
that existed outside of time.
I can't imagine what that
must have been like for you.
( gasping )
Can I get you something?
No... nothing.
Telling me all this
is hard for you.
Maybe I should come back
some other time.
No. There won't be
any other time.
You see...
I'm dying.
You must understand
that when a person
my age says he's dying,
he's only admitting
to the inevitable.
Besides, we old people
need to remind everyone
to pay special
attention to us.
If that's what you're up to,
you shouldn't have bothered.
You have my attention already.
You're a good listener.
That's important
in a writer.
I'm not a writer yet.
Sounds like you're waiting
for something to happen
that's going to
turn you into one.
I'm not waiting.
I'm doing a lot of reading,
you know, to see
how it's done,
and I'm still trying
to figure out
what it is
I want to write about.
I see.
So what happened?
With your father, I mean.
Did you ever see him again?
For the next few months,
Dax and O'Brien tried to
find a way to locate him.
They even considered
recreating the accident,
but that was impossible
since the wormhole
wasn't going to undergo
an inversion for decades.
Eventually the situation with
the Klingons came to a head,
and the Federation
decided to turn over
control of the station
to the Klingon Empire.
There was nothing I could do.
I had to leave my home
of five years
and give up
whatever hope there was
of seeing my father again.
Did the Klingons
ever contact Starfleet
to say that your father
had reappeared?
No.
I was left
with no choice
but to try and get
on with my life.
I went to Earth,
drifted around,
and eventually ended up
studying writing at
the Pennington School.
After graduation, I settled
here in Louisiana
so I could be near
my grandfather.
He had a restaurant
in the French Quarter, you know.
I've been there.
It's still called Sisko's.
And on the wall, there's a copy
of the letter
your publisher sent you
when he accepted
your first novel.
Grandpa was always showing off
his famous grandson.
He was just as proud of me
as my father would have been.
You wrote Anslem in this house,
didn't you?
At that desk, right over there.
It came out to generally
favorable reviews,
and little by little,
I began to think less and less
about the past.
After a while, I met a woman...
fell in love,
we got married,
and for a while,
this house was
a happy one.
WOMAN:
I'm back!
Nog!
I didn't realize
you were here already.
I was trying
to finish a painting
before the light changed,
and I guess the time
got away from me.
It's good to see you.
You, too.
Did you start the grill?
Mm-hmm.
Oh, what are we having?
Blackened redfish,
fresh from the bayou.
Fish?!
When these woods are crawling
with perfectly good slugs?
I suppose you're going to ask me
to chew your food for you.
( laughs )
I have to admit I've been
more popular with women
since I stopped
asking them to do that.
I tried to tell you
that 20 years ago.
I'm a slow learner.
I'm going to get some champagne.
I'm glad you're here, Nog.
I see you've got another
pip on your collar.
You keep that up, you're
going to make Captain
by the time you're 40.
The last time we talked,
you mentioned
you might be heading back
to the Bajoran sector.
( sighs )
The Klingons agreed
to let Starfleet
send an expedition
through the wormhole.
They said it was in the spirit
of scientific exchange.
But I think they were happy
to have us test the waters
in the Gamma Quadrant
after all these years.
Find out how
the Dominion would react
to ships coming through.
Did you see the station?
I'm sorry to say it's looking
a little run-down these days.
But you'll never guess
who's still there.
Not your father?
No, no. He and my uncle
left years ago.
Quark finally
got that little moon
he was always talking about,
and my father, as usual,
is making sure
it doesn't fall
out of orbit,
but Morn is still there,
running the bar.
Talking his
customers' ears off
and drinking himself out
of business, I'll bet.
Well, why don't we
get to the point
of today's
little celebration?
To my dear friend
Jake Sisko--
winner of this year's
Betar Prize
for his Collected Stories.
May the years continue
to be good to you,
may your muse continue
to inspire you,
and may someone
make a holoprogram
out of
one of your stories
so you can start
raking in the latinum.
( all chuckling )
( gasping )
Are you all right?
Do you want me to call a doctor?
No.
I'll be fine.
You should rest.
No, you came a long way
to find out why I
had stopped writing,
and you deserve an answer.
Later that night,
after Nog had left,
I stayed up working.
My new novel was going well,
and when it's going well,
you don't want to stop.
Coming to bed?
Um...I'm not tired.
Neither am I.
You know, I-I wanted
to ask you something.
How would you feel
about designing the cover
of my new book?
Do you mean it?
( whooshing )
What was that?
Jake?
Did you get through?
I talked to someone
at Starfleet Science.
They're going to get a team
here as soon as they can.
This is Korena, my wife.
Your wife?
I never thought I'd have
the pleasure of meeting you.
The pleasure is mine.
How long have you two
been married?
Seven years.
Do I have
any grandchildren?
Not yet.
We were married
in New Orleans
in your father's restaurant.
He insisted.
Just about everybody came.
Dax, Kira, O'Brien.
That must have been
something.
I got to go
call Starfleet.
Whoa.
They'll get here
as soon as they can.
Talk to me.
I've missed so much.
Let's not waste
what little time we have.
I have a feeling
you might want
to see these.
They're Jake's.
You did it.
I always knew
you would.
( crying )
Oh, Jake.
I'm sorry.
For what?
For giving
up on you.
No one could be expected
to hold out hope for this long.
No, I-I-I should have
just kept trying
to find you,
and I just went on with my life.
And I'm proud
of what you've accomplished.
None of it matters
now that I know that you're
out there lost somewhere.
Of course it matters.
You have a wife,
a career.
And don't think
because I'm not around much
that I...
don't want grandchildren.
OLD JAKE:
Within a few seconds,
he was gone again.
I don't know what to say.
You don't have to say anything.
Just listen,
because there isn't much time,
and there's so much more
for me to tell you.
I consulted with Dax,
and we realized
that the accident
must have created
some sort of subspace link
between my father and myself.
That's why he always appeared
somewhere near you,
even if you were hundreds
of light years away
from where
the accident happened.
We also realized that there was
a pattern to his appearances.
They were governed
by fluctuations
in the wormhole subspace field.
Dax's calculations
also showed
that the next time
he appeared,
I'd be an old man.
So I decided
to put aside my novel
and try to find a way
to help him.
And at the age of 37,
I went back to school
and started studying
subspace mechanics.
At first,
Korena was very patient.
She supported
what I was trying to do,
but I got so caught up
in my work,
I didn't notice
I was losing her.
By the time I became
a graduate student,
we were no longer
living together,
and by the time I had entered
my doctoral program,
it was over between us.
But I pressed on
with what I was doing,
and one day years later,
it hit me.
I figured out a way
to recreate
the accident.
It had been
almost 50 years
and the wormhole would soon
be undergoing another inversion.
There was only one other thing
I needed.
The Defiant.
Nog was a Captain by then,
and he helped me round up
the old crew
and get the ship pulled out
of mothballs.
Worf threw his weight around
with the Klingon High Council,
and they gave us permission
to enter the Bajoran system.
Take us out of warp.
I think I remember
how to do that.
I haven't worked
a two-dimensional control panel
in a long time.
How did we manage?
We always seemed
to muddle through somehow.
Look.
Maybe after we've got
Captain Sisko back,
we can all stop by Morn's
for a drink.
For old
time's sake.
OLD JAKE: I designed
a subspace flux isolator,
and we set it up
in Engineering.
Are you ready
over there, Dax?
As ready
as I'll ever be,
considering the replicators
were just about the only things
still working
when we came aboard.
It's a lucky thing, too.
Dax isn't any good
to anybody these days
without a cup of coffee
in her hands.
It's the only thing
that's kept me awake
while you've prattled on
about your latest paper
or your new backhand
or your kids'
science projects.
NOG: We're picking up
temporal distortions
in the subspace field.
The wormhole's
beginning to invert.
According to our readings,
it's going to kick out
a gravimetric wave
like the one that almost
destroyed the Defiant last time.
Don't worry, I've
modulated the shields
to channel the energy wave
into this apparatus.
Once subspace begins
to fragment,
we'll try to locate
the Captain.
BASHIR:
Since the accident
created a subspace link
between him and Jake,
there'll be a path of
bread crumbs to follow.
( rumbling )
I'd better get back
to the Bridge.
Good luck.
OLD JAKE:
The wormhole wouldn't undergo
another inversion for decades,
so this was my only chance.
Subspace field fragmentation
is beginning.
It's working.
DAX:
I think I've got
the Captain's signature.
Something's happening.
I'm losing him.
We're losing
them both.
They're being pulled
into subspace.
Jake... how long
has it been?
14 years.
What is this place?
I don't know.
We could be inside some sort
of subspace fragment.
Sisko to Dax.
Can you read me?
I brought the Defiant back
to the wormhole.
We're trying to rescue you.
Dax, if you can read me,
try to lock onto my signal.
Look at you.
You're older than I am.
Damn it.
Why can't they lock onto us?
Jake, they're doing
the best they can.
There's nothing
we can do from here.
It's been so long.
I need to know
what I've missed.
What about those
grandchildren
we talked about?
Korena and I are...
We're no longer together.
She left me.
I'm sorry.
I shouldn't have
let her go,
but there was
so much I had to do.
This has taken years
of planning.
What about your writing?
Dax, try boosting
the carrier amplitude.
Maybe you can...
Jake, what's
happened to you?
This is the last chance
I'm ever going to have
to help you.
No!
Jake, it's over.
It's not going to work.
It has to.
Let go, Jake.
If not for yourself,
then for me.
You still have time to make
a better life
for yourself.
Promise me you'll do that.
Promise me!
( whooshing )
( Jake sobbing )
I want you to see something.
Go over to my desk.
Go ahead.
It's a collection
of new stories.
I decided to honor
my father's request
and try to rebuild my life.
Writing those stories
is the best way
I knew to do that.
I'd like you to have a copy.
Let me get you one.
Um...
can I have these instead?
Well, if you'd like,
but those have handwritten notes
all over them.
I know.
I want to study them,
so I can see
the changes you made.
Because you want to be
a writer someday.
Can I ask you why you
haven't published these?
Well, I...
I was tinkering with the last
story just this morning.
Besides, if you
publish posthumously,
nobody can ask you
for rewrites.
I was hoping to finish
another two stories,
but there isn't enough time.
You keep on saying
there's no more time.
You see, Melanie,
after the last attempt
to rescue my father failed,
I spent months trying
to figure out what went wrong.
Eventually, I came
to understand the nature
of what was happening to him.
It was as if he
was frozen in time
at the moment
of the accident,
and the link between us
was like an elastic cord.
Every so often, the cord
would grow taut enough
to yank him forward
into my time,
but only for a few minutes.
I realized that
if my motion through time
came to a stop,
the cord would go slack,
and he'd be lost
in subspace forever,
but if I could cut the cord
when the link
was at its strongest--
while we were together--
he'd return to the moment
of the accident.
Your father's coming here,
isn't he?
Soon.
Yes.
You're going to cut the cord,
aren't you?
I want you
to promise me something.
Anything.
While you're studying
my stories,
poke your head up
every once in a while.
Take a look around.
See what's going on.
It's life, Melanie.
And you can miss it
if you don't open your eyes.
Thank you...
for everything.
It was a pleasure meeting you,
young lady.
Jake.
Mmm...
I've been expecting you.
I'm glad to see
you're still in this house.
You seemed happy here.
And this...
I-I can't tell
you how good
it makes me feel
you got back to writing.
( gasping )
Jake, what is it?
Read the dedication.
"To my father...
who's coming home."
Thank you, but I...
I don't understand.
It was me.
It was me all along.
I've been dragging you
through time like an anchor,
and now it's time
to cut you loose.
Jake, what are you saying?
It won't be long now.
Jake, no!
When I die, you'll go back
to where this all began.
Just remember
to dodge the energy discharge
from the warp core.
Jake, you could still have
so many years left.
No.
We have to be together
when I die.
Jake, you didn't have
to do this...
not for me.
For you and for the boy
that I was.
He needs you...
more than you know.
Don't you see?
We're going to get a second...
chance.
Jake...
my sweet boy.
( quiet sob )
You okay?
H-How'd you know
that was coming?
I guess we were just
lucky this time.
You okay, Dad?
I am now, Jake.
I am now.